hello my name is aaron young from define
digital academy and i'm your 15 000 hour
google ads master today what we're going
to be going through is i want to take
you through the step-by-step process on
how you can set up your very own
campaign in google ads
now i want to make this very clear right
from the start that i'm actually
pitching this at people who are very new
to google ads so you've got either no
experience or only a very limited
experience in google ads but before we
get into that what i also wanted to let
you know is that if you stay around to
the end of this video i've actually got
a free gift for you and that is actually
i want to give you a free download of my
google ads optimization checklist
because obviously after we have set up
your campaign
we're going to need to optimize that and
what this checklist is is this checklist
is something that i've developed over
the last 12 years of managing google ads
campaigns
and it's something that i still use
every day i use it for all of my clients
whether they be some of my small
business clients with you know smaller
budgets of under a thousand dollars a
month and i use it for my really large
clients and international clients who've
got budgets of up to 85 000 a month
the great thing about this checklist is
it's part of my system and my process
and it works for whatever campaign
whatever size a campaign you're running
and whatever niche or niche that your
campaign is in and what it actually does
is it actually goes through a checklist
and lets you know what you need to
optimize every 72 hours
every week
every month every three months and also
every year so a free gift that i want to
give to you just for sticking around on
this video with me right now let's jump
into this step-by-step process of
getting your campaign started
okay so the first step of what we want
to do is we want to do a search for
google ads once you've done that search
you can just click on this and just go
straight into your google ads landing
page if you do have a google account or
a google ads account you can already
just go in and sign in or if you wanted
to you can actually create a new google
account and a google ads account and the
benefit of that is is on your first
campaign you do actually get a hundred
dollars ad credit after you spend your
first 75 dollars so let's set this up
and i'm gonna say we're not a robot now
that will email me a code which i can
get and then i want to click on start
now
now the first time that you actually
jump into google ads it will actually
bring you into what's called smart mode
but you don't want to actually stay in
the smart mode and the reason for that
is if you were to stay in smart mode it
sets up what's called smart campaigns
now the issue with that is that you
actually don't get any visibility on
what is happening in your account
essentially you just put in your website
you put in some some keywords that you
think would match and then google
actually runs your campaign but what
we're going to be teaching you is the
the way to go through it so don't get
scared by the switch to expert mode
because with the smart mode is that for
the for the life of that campaign google
doesn't give you visibility on what
search terms people are actually using
you can't add in some key optimizations
like adding in audiences and and extra
location targeting and bid optimizations
and and i don't want you to get scared
by all of those words because through
this video and other videos i'm going to
be taking you through this process on a
step-by-step basis so
so essentially what you want to do is
you want to make sure that you're
actually switching to this expert mode
okay and then once you've switched to
expert mode it'll bring you to this
screen and you want to look for this new
campaign button so what we're doing here
is we go through and press new campaign
now for this video i'm only going to be
focusing on a google search campaign
which is those ads you may see when you
put in a google search and they're the
text based ads and for those for a
google search campaign there's only
three different campaign types that we
can use and this is either sales leads
or website traffic sales and leads are
pretty close together but obviously the
difference is that sales is probably
more bent to people who are
who are using sort of e-commerce
products so you're selling physical
products and what leads is is that's
actually more people who uh you're
wanting them to either give you a phone
call or you're wanting them to fill out
our contact form
website traffic is actually more for
people who probably have a larger budget
for most businesses i'd be sticking in
the sales and the leads
campaign types and the reason for that
is because obviously when you're you're
starting out you're really wanting to
limit those costs and make sure you're
getting the best conversion values and
the the highest number of sales or the
highest number of enquiries for the
lowest price unless you're a big
business and you've got and you really
want to or you really want to be
aggressive with your branding and and
get your your name and your branding out
there i'd really be sticking to that's
what website traffic can be used for but
i'd be sticking to your sales and your
leads it is important to note as well is
that you actually can't change this so
once you've actually set this up you
can't go back and change this option
that that's actually this is one of the
only options that you can't change so
just important to keep it in mind but
for most people sales and leads will be
fine so we go through and select the
sales and then as we said obviously
we're dealing with search campaigns
today
so we'll then select on that
now if you want to you can actually add
in these select the ways you'd like to
reach your goals so whether you want to
go by website visits or phone calls
store visits i mean obviously we're not
talking about app downloads today but
for the phone calls that's going to be
an option for you to add in a call
extension which we will do later and
i'll explain that through so we can just
leave that blank
and same with website conversions we'll
leave that blank for the moment because
that's not worth talking about in this
video but don't stress we can set that
up at a later date now you'll see
through here is this google will give
you the option of the sales search one
as the campaign name
my methodology and what i recommend is i
very much recommend you actually change
this name and the reason why you want to
change this name is is it's something
which we talk about in naming
conventions and it's actually really
really important and if you just keep
that as sales search one now later down
the track when you might have multiple
different campaigns running if they're
all called sales search one and sales
search two you actually don't know what
they're they're about so you actually
have to dive into each individual
campaign as opposed to being able to
take it from a top level approach so you
can see which campaigns or which
products are performing better so i'm
going to be running this for a villa
resort that we manage in bali and they
have one bedroom and two bedroom villas
so i'm going to be running this example
off of this and we're going to be
calling it one bedroom
seminar
so for me that actually becomes really
important i know what that means i know
that the 1bv is the slang that we use
internally for one bedroom villa and
seminyak because we do use other
campaigns targeting bali and bali
keywords so so but for you like say for
example if you're selling men's you're
selling shoes you might have a campaign
for men's shoes and then you might have
another campaign for women's shoes and
then you might have another campaign for
kids shoes
and then also if you wanted to you can
either a good strategies if you if
you're marketing to different locations
so different cities sorry for different
states or different countries you could
put men's shoes australia or men's shoes
europe so there's a lot of different
options but the main goal of that is
that you're just wanting to have a
really strong name of your campaign so
that when you're looking at reviewing
your campaign down the track you know
exactly what you're talking about
then we press continue
and then after we've got our campaign
name we select continue it actually
brings us to your budget
now with google ads it's important to
remember that your budget is actually
set on a daily budget
and but it's actually run over a monthly
average so if you wanted to to spend say
for example 300 a month you would put
your budget in at 10 a day
but it's important to note with this is
that some days as your campaign is
running you may spend twelve dollars
some days other days you may spend eight
dollars but it's looking at that over
the month that your campaign spend will
be in and around that three hundred
dollars there is a little bit of a
variance of around about five percent
either way
and another important thing to note is
that as your campaign gets more mature
and you're starting to get good results
and google will actually start to use
some different automatic optimizations
so for example if it becomes really
clear data that you're getting better
conversions or better sales on the
weekends so for example from friday
night through to sunday night
google will start automatically putting
in some extra budget and extra focus on
those days and then coming off and
having a little bit less budget on the
mondays and tuesdays so so don't be a
don't be worried if one day you know
your budget set at 10 and you see 15
spent google does work it out so that
over a 30 day or a month average and
you're spending in and around that
average from your daily budget
all right so then it gets into your
bidding and you've got a couple of
options here you can either now if you
have added in some some conversions at
the start you can actually choose to be
going down by conversions which is
basically looking at focusing on the
number of conversions or conversion
value that's actually more for
if you've got an e-commerce and you've
actually got like a a price for products
but
regardless of that even if they were an
option always i always start a new
campaign focused on clicks now the
reason for this is because
even if we do have some conversion
values in there i want to be able to
control the campaign settings and i
won't switch it over to maximize
conversions or maximize conversion value
until we have some actual conversions
tracking and i'm happy with the quality
of those conversions and once i know
that i'm happy with the quality of
conversions and level of conversions we
then will switch over from clicks to
maximize conversions generally at around
about the 45 to 60 day mark
and then you will see this little
section down here for
for more settings we can we can skip
them because it will automatically set
it to prefer the best performing ads
which is what we want and obviously we
said we'll set up that conversion
tracking at a later date then we click
next
all right so this now brings you to
you'll see the network options and you
can see that pre-selected you'll
actually have including the search
partners
now search partners are other networks
outside of google and so aol and other
sites which actually sort of take and
factor in google searches to be honest
with you i've never in my 12 years of
running google ads campaigns i've never
seen two two things i've never seen i've
never seen the google search partners
outperform the google search network and
the google search partners you just
don't get as much information so you
don't get as much clicks and impressions
and you just don't get the same level of
information from those search partners
so because i don't see any value in it i
just always unselect that
and then also with the display network
now the display network is sort of the
image based ads and the remarketing and
retargeting ads which you may have heard
about now because today we're only
talking about the search or the text ads
i actually don't select that either
because if we do want to advertise in
the google display network i'm a big
believer in that you're actually better
off setting up a separate display
campaign with focused image ads because
if you've got search ads
you know text-based ads which google is
just pushing out on the display network
to try and pad out your budget you're
never going to get as much cut through
and as much results compared to other
advertisers who've got specific image
based ads for the display network all
right moving into locations so this
really comes down to to your product and
and whether it's worthwhile so for this
one we're marketing a resort in bali so
so we've got some internal information
because we have run campaigns on this
before that you know we we would target
places like australia
so you can um
target that we know that we get really
good market from places like singapore
so we can target that and then also we
we actually get a really good basis from
some of the ua
uae states
but you could also add add you know
united states united kingdom
united out of emirates so there's a lot
of different sections you can add there
but that's not really what i wanted to
talk about you'll know your own location
targeting but just also know that if you
wanted to you can actually set this up
by down to cities and you can also set
this up via postcodes or zip codes even
down to that level as well so you add
those but what i wanted to talk about
is the location options
now there's essentially two main options
is presence
and interest so presence is when people
are regularly in your targeted locations
and so that's people who so if you're
targeting say for example sydney you're
only going to be targeting people who
are regularly in so basically people who
live or work in your targeted locations
where search interest is people who are
searching for your targeted locations so
for most campaigns you'd be using
presence or interest the only time that
i would use presence only
is if you're offering a specific uh
product or service in a in a really
tight area so if you're only if you're
offering say for example you're a
plumber or a carpenter and your services
are only for one city i'd only be using
presents just because you really want to
be
targeting people who are living and
working in your areas
you can then add some exclusions but at
the moment that will be fine but we're
going to keep for this one because we're
not only wanting to target people who
are in bali at the moment because we
also do get people who are there
currently and doing some last minute
bookings but they're also looking at
targeting people who aren't actually in
our physical area which is bali and
we're wanting to to target those
different countries okay from there as
well if you wanted to you can also
target via languages now in regards to
languages you're better off keeping it
to your individual language so obviously
for this campaign you know i speak
english so we're going to be targeting
in english if you do have a product or
your company that has different
languages i would recommend breaking
that out and splitting that out into
different languages so you'd have a
campaign for english speakers
campaign for portuguese or spanish or
chinese whatever other language they
speak and the reason for that is so that
way you can have particular ad copies
now audience segments
i
this is a bit of a a pain point for me
because the amount of times i see people
teaching and and they just say oh you
can just skip over this audience
segments
i really want to stress to you that
audience segments are not an optional
extra
you need to be adding your audience
segments right from the very start now
google ads we do a lot of targeting by
keywords but i would say just as
important as the actual audiences that
you're targeting
and and so what you can do here is that
obviously we're targeting a we're
targeting a holiday destination so we
would be looking at
you know you can do a search for holiday
and then you know we can target all of
these people who are currently looking
at searching different holidays so we
can add you know add them fairly vague
beach bound snowboard you know we'll add
all of those even those obviously
snowboard um you can't there's no snow
in barley but there's because we're
we're setting this to an observation
method
uh and and what that actually means is
that we're not actually we're not
cutting out people who aren't in these
audiences that we select but it's just
going to give us some extra data that we
can report on and and how that how that
really helps is if we actually see that
you know after the campaign is going
we're actually seeing that the travel
audience is outperforming the water
sports enthusiast audience we can
actually focus our extra budget in on
that so at the start all you need to
know is that let's just add as many
audiences as possible and you can remove
them down the track the value in it is
that it just gives you another whole set
of data that you can actually use to
optimize your campaign in the future
so it's just a matter of selecting all
of those
and then we
we see them added in there
and then down the mall settings there
are options to uh start this so if you
wanted to start it say on a particular
date say three or four days from now you
could do that
with an end date you can add an end date
but
what i'm if you are going to end the end
date i do see also some people set up
campaigns for like sort of seven days or
ten days that's actually not really
recommended and the reason for that is
because when you start a new campaign
they're actually it actually does go
into a learning phase of a round of
sometimes up to sort of 14 days so i
wouldn't be starting a google ads
campaign if you're not going to be
running it for at least 30 to 60 days
but obviously with the majority
campaigns you can be running this and
it's going to be going to continue going
the ad schedule if you know there are
some businesses where you only want your
ads to run on a certain day so you may
not want those ads to run on a sunday
and what you can actually do is that you
can actually add in here and we're
saying you know we just want it to run
monday to friday we wanted to start at
nine o'clock in the morning and run
through to
let's just say nine o'clock at night i
see those settings very much especially
if you're a service-based industry you
know so like if you're a doctor surgery
and you only want people calling you or
contacting you when you're open you can
add those but for this campaign because
it's a holiday campaign we want people
to be booking uh any time of the day all
right then we can go to next
now we come to the time where we
actually add in our keywords and ads now
if you're unfamiliar with google ads
it's built around keyword targeting so
these are the actual keywords and search
phrases that you're going to be
targeting so that when someone searches
certain keywords you actually want your
ads to appear now when you do add in
your website and i'll add in our website
for the the villas
myville is in bali.com
it will actually do you do have an
option of actually getting keywords
now i've actually got another video on
this which is in and around our keyword
research and i'll actually put this in
in the link because i don't actually
recommend
using this function and the reason for
that is because what what you actually
want to end up and and start doing is
that you want to have your keywords and
your ad groups actually really
structured into different keyword themes
and and the reason for that is because
you know we're advertising one bedroom
villas and two bedroom villas and we
don't want everything crammed into one
campaign or one ad group so i do have
another video as i said which i'll have
a link on that uh which will show you
this process so that you can actually
create a spreadsheet like this but we're
going to be focusing in on i've got this
campaign for
one bedroom villas and one bedroom
seminar so i'm going to take all of
those keywords and then it's just a
matter of cutting them i'll get rid of
all these ones
and then you uh we see our keywords from
here
now there is because we haven't put in
all the locations you'll see this come
in but i wouldn't actually really worry
about this
because we know that there's search
traffic for these keywords because i can
see it in here and i know that that's in
there so we don't need to be stressed
about that now the ad group as well so
similar to what we did with the naming
convention in and around the campaign
where we called it one bedroom seminyak
and we would be calling this the same so
we can go one bedroom seminar
and the reason for that is i might have
some other ad groups in this campaign in
and around you know bali or different
spellings but we want to do that for the
same reason again is that when we're
looking at our campaign and how it's
performing so that you don't have to go
into every single campaign and every
single ad group you know exactly what
that ad group is talking about so you
can see here there's the one bedroom
villa seminyak and we know that these
keywords are just talking about one
bedroom villa seminar we're not
targeting two bedroom villas we're not
targeting holiday accommodation in bali
we'll put them into separate ad groups
and campaigns once again using your
example if if you're selling shoes
you might have an ad group for men's
shoes and then another ad group for
women's shoes they're good for men's
shoes you'd just be talking about men's
shoes and then the ad group for women's
shoes to be talking from there then the
next section that comes down to is your
ads so you would add in your your url
which for us is
amazonbali.com
and then now similar to the keyword
research i've actually got another video
on this which we can actually which i'll
also put that link on there for ad copy
so similar to your keyword research is
that i would have actually done this
before and what we actually do is that
we create a spreadsheet where we've got
all of our ad copies in there and the
reason for why i do this is is actually
um pretty simple once again it's just so
that i just find it's a better way that
i can actually plan out my
ad copy make sure hitting all of our
core messages and uh rather than just in
here just going oh what what am i going
to type and and what are we going to do
i also find for quality control it just
allows you to make sure little things
like you've got your spelling done
correctly and if you've got any industry
regulation concerns you can just make
sure that everything is done done
correctly and so once you've done that
it's just a matter of copying over your
headlines and then copying over your ad
descriptions also what we
talking with this one is i'm only
dealing with responses search ads and
the reason for that is because come june
some of you may have been familiar with
expanded text ads but if you're new to
google ads and you have no idea what i'm
talking about this is going to be the
standard type of ad that you can use so
what actually happens is you can see
your ad through here is that google
actually displays three different
headlines
and two descriptions but you actually
have the option of adding up to 15
different headlines and up to four
different descriptions what happens from
there is is that in these responsive
search ads google it has some built-in
split testing where google will display
the ad copies the headlines and
descriptions in different manners so
they can work out which ads are getting
the best results and which combinations
are getting the best you know highest
number of click-throughs and ultimately
the highest number of conversions
so i just basically go back to my sheet
and start copying
everything across
there are different uh
lines we want to use
we've got a uh we've already got that
sale one
where we offer a guaranteed best price
and then what you can also do if you did
want to i mean obviously i was going to
put my my name in there our branded name
in there as well is that you do want to
make sure that you're actually hitting
off these keyword searches in there and
the reason for that is because if
someone actually searches one bedroom
villa seminyak you want them to be able
to see it in their keyword text
now another thing to to note as well is
that you do have character limits for
your head headlines you've got 30
characters that you can use for your
headlines and 90 that you can use for
your descriptions so we can go through
and add more but for the process of
today i'll just add those then we've got
my two descriptions you're going to be
adding once again you can add some extra
ones
and then up here you can actually see
this
display path the display path is where
you can actually put something in like
uh one
bedroom
seminyak
villas
and what that actually does if you can
actually see here in the ad this will
actually appear after it and once again
it just helps with the targeting of
what's happening in here now one thing i
will notice in here you see this little
warning is that you do want to make sure
that you're actually sending it to
a secure website so a site that has a
safety certificate or ssl certificate on
it because if you don't do that when
people click on the ad they will
actually get a bit of a warning so just
make sure that you are sending it to the
https version of your website so you can
see here that's an example how the ad
looks and with those responsive ads you
can see here you can run through the
different previews and you can just see
how google is just going to be running
some different headlines and different
descriptions in different orders that's
how it looks on mobile and then you can
also switch over to see how it looks on
your desktop
if you did want to you can then actually
go through and create other ad groups
but we're not going to do this for this
example but that's if you wanted to do
other other ad groups you just recreate
that process of adding in your keywords
and your ad copy so then after this this
actually brings you to your
extensions so i'm
i'm just going to give a brief overview
on this but obviously your site link
extensions are options for you to be
able to send people to different parts
of your website so if you wanted to so
for us in this we're advertising a
one-bedroom seminar villas but we've
also got two-bedroom seminar villas so
we could actually send them to that
two-bedroom villa site you can also send
them to your contact page or your
gallery uh whatever the situation is
there that you can add those site links
in but we will do that at another time
call-out extensions these are little
phrases that actually appear after your
after your ads and that will appear on
all of your ads so for us we do we do
offer things like free airport transfer
we can type that in
you know if you were running a
e-commerce brand and you offered a free
delivery you might want to type in you
know free delivery
or you might want to type in 90 day
returns policy but it's basically just
an
opportunity for you to use some unique
selling points and add that into your
hands but similar to that we won't add
these in at the moment and then finally
call extensions so this is actually
where you can actually get your phone
number to appear at the bottom of the ad
so if you want to uh have people
actually call you you just enter in your
your phone number and this will actually
automatically set up conversion tracking
which is great so you can actually get
tracking in google ads which actually
lets you know how many times people have
actually seen your ad and clicked on
your phone number if you've ever seen it
before where you've you've done a google
search and you've clicked on an ad and
it hasn't taken you to the website it's
taking you directly to their phone
number and then you've got the option to
ring them that's what a call extension
is the only thing i will say is call
extensions is that whatever phone number
you put in here that actually does need
to appear on your website so whatever
phone number you have on your website it
needs to be in the call extension as
well all right and then we get to our
review section
so you see your campaign name we see
that it's a search sales then we
actually see our budget you see your
bidding and then you just so what you're
basically doing you're just going
through and checking that you're happy
with everything and then you get to see
this little button through here if
you're happy with everything you then
press publish campaign and you're you're
good to go
okay so you've done it you've pressed
publish and you've got your first
campaign live so as i promised at the
start of this video the next step is
actually now that we've got your
campaign running live is that you
actually need to know what optimizations
you need to be completing every every 72
hours every day every week every month
every quarter and then also every year
so what i've actually put together for
you is i've actually put together my
google ads optimization checklist so if
you actually go to our website which is
define digital academy and then forward
slash google ads checklist you'll have
the option to be able to actually
download this checklist and you'll
actually get access to that form
straight away and then what we also do
do is we actually we release videos like
this every single week with great
training so you will be notified when
they come out that's my free gift for
you thank you for watching this video i
remember i'll put this google ass
checklist link in the description down
below and uh look forward to seeing you
on our next training video thank you